suppose you got in a time machine and
you traveled back to the era not so many
decades ago when the world was ruled by
newspapers when newspapers to have
gossip columns but when the author of
the gossip columnist would have to
answer to a lawyer who would inspect the
gossip column before was published to
make sure that we're going to get sued
to make sure they weren't guilty of
defamation when there was a stated
formal procedure to make sure that
editorial opinion didn't just cater to
sang with the audience one here if you
travelled back in time and talk to
someone who was living in that era when
the newspaper was King and he said to
them hey you know in the future the
media is not going to work this way
not at all that barrier between the
editorial role and the audience it's
going to disappear the audience is
increasingly going to take over the role
of editor and curator of mass media to
their own delectation oh yeah that
barrier you have between professional
journalists and amateur member of the
audience that barrier is going to
disappear the barrier is come to come on
both sides the audience has risen up to
write their own content generate their
own articles and so on write their own
gossip columns on the Internet and the
other hand I think we can say
professional journalism bad as it ever
was has eroded away where the
professionals really have no advantage
over the amateurs these days anyway in
as much as anyone is still earning a
living as a professional journalist it's
very few people get paid by newspapers
if you travel back in time and you
confronted someone with this this vision
in the future someone who was living in
the past
in that era with that technology and so
on they probably would respond by
imagining a science-fiction future in
which people are tremendously forgiving
and understanding and accommodating
about one another's moral lapses because
then in that few
sure it wouldn't just be a few stars in
Hollywood who get gossip published about
them who get you know denounced in the
editorial pages of the newspapers in the
gossip pages in the society column of
news orders well every man and his
brother would be subject to the same
censure to I mean even if it was just
you live in a small town and you're a
drunk and everyone in your small town is
posting on Facebook complaining about
what a drunk you are well you still have
to live with that now don't you the
mechanics of how that goes on the
purpose the perpetual Spanish
Inquisition of all against all the
morality police Ingham omnia contra
omnes of each individual against all the
others on the gossip columns without end
without direction without editorial
without a legal department answer to you
might think this would generate a
tremendously tolerant sympathetic
sensitive society no at the moment near
2020 we have a society addicted to the
adrenaline rush of morally judging
someone else and feeling superior to
them controversy the day involves a
young man titanic sinclair and an even
younger woman named poppy poppy was a
rock star on tour you don't want to or
with her band playing shows and she
slept around why do you think anyone
even becomes a rock star and goes on
tour like morally i why would i be
inclined to judge this or why would i
get on some kind of ego trip judging her
for this behavior and i mean and if
you're gonna judge her for it why don't
you look at the whole history of rock
stars and musicians let it's just
mind-blowing to me that this is even a
topic of moral opprobrium in the 24th
century given that what we're talking
about is all consenting adults so to
speak you know okay as far as I know
they're also even sober consenting
adults we don't get the normal
with you know drug addiction and
alcoholism and later regrets you know
for that reason um but there was another
case I'm not gonna give the name with
any deals there was another case of a
guy being denounced in the internet
because he and his wife together went on
a cruise ship and on this cruise on a
boat they invited another woman to come
back to their cabin on this boat these
were all like middle-aged people okay
these are all like boring middle-aged
people okay it's not a cruise ship with
his wife and they invite some other
woman to come back to their cabin and
have a three-way and again
this story which isn't that salacious to
begin with is even less salacious cuz
apparently the woman just said no and
that was it nothing happened like it
wasn't like there wasn't anything
dramatic she declined then everyone got
on with her life sure when I heard this
it was like why do you think these
boring people go on cruises to begin
with like why do you think they're
spending their time in a cabin on this
boat I mean you know these aren't people
who are fascinated with oceanography
these are people who are there to look
at the waves like I don't care it's okay
a rock star on tour with the band sleeps
around without a note some fans or some
other musicians News at 6:00
Emily is this even worth talking about
boring middle-aged couple signs up for a
cruise ship vacation is interested in
having another person in their cabin on
the vacation mind-blowing I mean if this
didn't happen how the hell would the
company sell tickets for people to get
on a boat that goes nowhere I mean by
definition this is a round trip all
right young Jean sure is great sitting
on the deck of this boat to water sir I
mean it's not like they entered into a
yachting competition around catamaran
speedboat competition or something okay
you're sitting on the ship doing nothing
you can read books you know what being
honestly you really can't read very well
the the motion of the poem if you want
to read books go to the library it's a
recent what they call it a cruise but
the role of the audience this
Asia's audience that has taken over the
editors room that's taken over writing
the newspaper and that you know so
recklessly and so greedily is always
looking for a new target for
condemnation apparently just to make
themselves feel better about their own
mediocre lives their own lack of
ambition I don't have any other space
for it I mean there are other
explanations like Christianity Judaism
Islam probably all these people grew up
with religious beliefs that are just
radically incompatible with biological
human life on planet earth in the 21st
century really if you look past the
glassy surface in any century I mean you
know guess what
Napoleon Bonaparte cheated on Josephine
Josephine cheated under Polian Bonaparte
you can call it polyamory you can call
it an open marriage in every century I
go back to ancient Rome read the secret
history and so on the the reality below
the the glassy surface that society
presents normally what people want to
write down on their tombstone or in the
history books human biology hasn't
changed human biology is not going to
change human ideology is gonna change
culture is gonna change because it has
to change okay Titanic Sinclair ever
wants to line up and judge and condemn
Titanic Sinclair he started being the
boyfriend to poppy when she was 19 years
old you got to have maturity you got to
have detachment if you choose to date
someone who's 19 years old five years
later they're gonna be a completely
different person if you don't believe me
just do this quick thought experiment
imagine you dated a 19 year old let's
say when they were 19 and you were 22
and let's say you only dated for two
months short corrosion and then you
broke up and you didn't see each other
again for five years
you came back and see them you met five
years later I don't know met at a coffee
shop marathon across the store and you
start talking to them what do you expect
you
Wow you've changed so much you're a
totally different person
conversely what if you bump into them
five years later and they're exactly the
same they haven't changed still like
mentally emotionally intellectually in
terms there's there's still that 19 year
old you knew five years earlier
wouldn't that be disturbing wouldn't it
be just when you walk away think wow
that that girl hasn't changed at all man
I knew her when she was 19 and now she's
really a fully grown at Dalton though
man she's still playing the same video
games or whatever there was a girl I
knew in high school when we said these
this is a high school relationship there
was a girl I was involved with in high
school like I can't even say we were
dating or had a rep high school we were
kids and I bumped into her toward the
end of University and and footnote here
whenever a Canadian tells you anecdotes
about high school University we were all
a year older than the Americans the
Canadian high school system used to be a
year longer than the American system of
the European system so everyone was a
bit more mature so like me at the end of
university we were all old and we so I
knew this girl in high school I was
involved there back then let's say it
was five years probably it was four
years I didn't see her something like
that and then I bump into her in a bar
she was sitting in a boat by the way I
don't drink alcohol and at that time
already four years had you know I was at
a bar and had bump into her with her
best friend and she still has the same
best friend that she had in high school
hey bump into her and she's there and
they were drunk and they were on I think
mushrooms hallucinogenic mushrooms and
so you know she's like apologizing that
she's high she can't really be witty
she's scattered she hasn't got everybody
together so but like you know she's the
same person I knew and I look she hasn't
grown up at all
she hasn't matured at all and you know
already at that time and then afterwards
we talked on the phone she was she was
trying to get into bed with me and like
in some ways that's flattering
and in some ways that's disturbing
you're sitting there like I've changed
so much I have changed so much everyone
else I've known over a period of just
the last two or three years during those
two or three years treat someone and
here you are you ain't changed you know
it's weird if you get involved with
someone who's 19 years old you
absolutely must expect them to
profoundly change in the next five years
guess what if you get involved with
someone who's 25 years old it's possible
they will profoundly change between age
25 and age 30 it's possible and you have
to be aware of that but it's not as
inevitable it's not as likely I mean how
much have I changed in the last five
years the last five years of my life are
completely documented here on YouTube
I've changed okay
I haven't changed that much judge for
yourself hey how much are people gonna
change in age 35 and age 40 as opposed
to between 19 and 20 for someone like
this okay it's inevitable titanic's and
Clare older guy got involved with a 19
year old
there was Fame involved makes it harder
makes it worse there was money involved
makes it harder makes it worse
there was the artistic creative process
involved you may not believe me makes it
harder makes it worse but fundamentally
Titanic Sinclair was a man got involved
with a 19 year old girl and she done
changed after he was with her for five
years
he ended up attempting suicide getting
hospitalized she turns around and puts
him on blast dumps it on the internet
that he attempted suicide she says all
these bad things about a new custom out
and that's the end of the story you may
not know it Titanic but this is what you
signed up for the question I have to ask
morally now in the year 2020 and going
forward is what is the role of the crowd
if each of us is acting in our capacity
as editors of a newspaper each of us is
acting in our
capacity as the authors of our own
pathetic little gossip columns whether
they are on Facebook or on Twitter or
here on YouTube right we're all
editorial we are all editorializing on
our own behalf we are all authors on our
own behalf
okay what I'm worried about here is not
the morality of a rock star who goes on
the road and chooses to sleep around I
am sincerely worried about the morality
of the braying crowd